---
title: '2022-2026'
date: 2025-08-26T10:45:14+09:00
draft: false
description: ''
keywords: ''
pageName: ''
pageType: 'pages'
categories: ['Workshop']
scriptfiles: ['']
---

<ul class="anchor-links">
  <li><a href="#2024">2024</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2023">2023</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2022">2022</a></li>
</ul>

## 2024{#2024}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">International Workshop June 30–July 2, 2024</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">IUPAB2024 Hands-on Training Program CHARMM-GUI/GENESIS MD Tutorial</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Yuji Sugita (RIKEN), Wonpil Im (Lehigh University), Florence Tama (Nagoya University), Yasuhiro Matsunaga (Saitama University), Kei Moritsugu (Osaka Metropolitan University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Understanding the relationship between function and structure of biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids requires not only simulations by molecular dynamics, but also a deep understanding of various physical chemical theories such as solution theory and molecular vibrational theory, as well as information science such as machine learning and Bayesian statistics. In this workshop, experts in these fields are invited to give lectures to discuss state-of-the-art techniques/results and to understand their interrelationships. In addition, experts are invited from one of the Programs for Promoting Research on the Supercomputer “Fugaku” to discuss the cutting-edge computational science research. </p>
  <p><a href="https://cbp.riken.jp/iupab2024-charmm-gui-genesis-workshop-online-information/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">official site</a>
  </p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2023{#2023}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">International Workshop August 9–10, 2023</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Multi-scale Molecular Dynamics Simulation and Machine Learning of Biomolecular Systems</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Yuji Sugita (RIKEN), Kiyoshi Yagi (RIKEN), Yasuhiro Matsunaga (Saitama University), Yuko Okamoto (Nagoya University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Understanding the relationship between function and structure of biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids requires not only simulations by molecular dynamics, but also a deep understanding of various physical chemical theories such as solution theory and molecular vibrational theory, as well as information science such as machine learning and Bayesian statistics. In this workshop, experts in these fields are invited to give lectures to discuss state-of-the-art techniques/results and to understand their interrelationships. In addition, experts are invited from one of the Programs for Promoting Research on the Supercomputer “Fugaku” to discuss the cutting-edge computational science research. </p>
  <p>
  <a href="https://tms.riken.jp/misc/ws-mdml-2023/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">official site</a>
  </p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2022{#2022}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">Symposium (The 60th Annual Meeting of the Biophysical Society of Japan) <br>September 29 (13:50~16:20)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">High-performance computational biophysics with supercomputer</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Yasuhiro Matsunaga (Saitama University), Ai Shinobu (RIKEN) </div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Computational approaches are becoming increasingly important in biophysics, not only for simulations but also for the detailed interpretation of various measurement data. In particular, with the recent launch of modern supercomputers such as Fugaku, enormous computational resources have become available, and new computational methods and applications that were not computationally feasible in the past are becoming possible. In this symposium, we invite researchers who conduct cutting-edge high-performance computations. We discuss current computational research using supercomputers as well as future directions of computational biophysics.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">Symposium (The 60th Annual Meeting of the Biophysical Society of Japan) <br>September 28, 2022, 13:50–16:20</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Structure and function of “meso-entangled bodies” in the cell</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Yuji Sugita (RIKEN), Hayashi Yamamoto (U. Tokyo)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Proteins often assemble to form &#8220;mesoscopic&#8221; complexes – some ordered and some disordered – to exert their functions in the cell. Therefore, elucidating their architectures and physical properties is necessary to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying life phenomena and diseases. In this research area &#8220;Cross-Scale Biology&#8221;, we particularly focus
  on mesoscopic structures in the range of 20–500 nm (including LLPS condensates), which we define as &#8220;meso-entangled bodies (MEBs)&#8221;, because MEBs are thought to be key factors that determine the fate of organisms through the transition from disordered to ordered states at the mesoscale. In this symposium, researchers working on the MEBs will gather to discuss the latest technologies and findings, including In-cell AFM, cryo-EM, chemical biology and LLPS.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">
  <a href="https://tms.riken.jp/misc/genesis-summer-school2022/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Workshop </a> August 01 &#8211; August 02</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;GENESIS Summer School 2022&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Yuji Sugita, Kiyoshi Yagi, Weitong Ren, Hisham Dokainish, Ai Niitsu (RIKEN)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>GENESIS (GENeralized-Ensemble SImulation System) is software for molecular dynamics (MD) calculations on various biomolecules (proteins, nucleic acids, small molecules, etc.) and their complexes. A key feature of the software is its ability to perform efficient large-scale parallel computations on supercomputers such as Fugaku. In this summer school, lectures and hands-on tutorials will be held so that participants can learn both theory and practice of MD calculations using GENESIS. A wide range of participants, from those who are new to MD calculations to those who want to learn more deeply and are interested in GENESIS, are invited to attend. We look forward to your participation.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">Workshop (The 22th Annual Meeting of the Protein Science Society of Japan) <br>June 9 (8:45~11:15)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Molecular simulations in the era of AlphaFold</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Song-ho Chong (RIKEN), Hiraku Oshima (RIKEN)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Machine learning approaches such as AlphaFold are imparting significant impacts on various scientific fields. Molecular simulations are no exception. In this workshop, we will argue &#8220;what is and will be true progress that cannot be achieved without machine learning approaches&#8221; and &#8220;how AlphaFold will impact the future of molecular simulations.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->