---
title: '2007-2011'
date: 2025-08-29T14:38:07+09:00
draft: false
description: ''
keywords: []
---

<ul class="anchor-links">
  <li><a href="#2011">2011</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2010">2010</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2009">2009</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2008">2008</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2007">2007</a></li>
</ul>

## 2011{#2011}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">November 25, 2011 (13:30 &#8211; 15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;The loop in liver alcohol dehydrogenase acts as a NAD+-activated switch for domain closure&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Steven Hayward (School of Computing Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase is a homodimer, the protomer having a coenzyme-binding domain and a catalytic domain.  Using all available X-ray structures and molecular dynamics simulations, the mechanism of NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small>-induced domain closure was investigated.[1] When the well-known loop at the domain interface is in the &quot;open&quot; conformation the domains are unable to close. However, when the loop was modelled to its &quot;closed&quot; conformation, the NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small>-induced domain closure from the open structure could be simulated with remarkable accuracy. Further simulations and a careful analysis of X-ray structures suggest that the loop prevents domain closure in the absence of NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small>, and a cooperative mechanism operates between the subunits for domain closure. This cooperative mechanism explains the role of the &quot;switch loop&quot; as a block to closure, as in the absence of NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small> it would prevent the occurrence of an unliganded closed subunit when the other subunit closes upon NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small>.<br>
    The switch loop comprises a rare ProPro motif suggesting a possible role in creating a rigid arm for communicating the presence of NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small> to the region that blocks domain closure. This was confirmed using a linear inverse-kinematics technique developed for loop modelling.[2]</p>
    <p>References<br>
    [1]. S. Hayward and A. Kitao, &quot;Molecular dynamics simulations of NAD<small><sup>+</sup></small>-induced domain closure in horse liver alcohol dehydrogenase&quot;, Biophysical Journal, 91: 1823-1831, 2006.<br>
    [2]. S. Hayward and A. Kitao, &quot;Effect of end constraints on protein loop kinematics&quot;, Biophysical Journal, 98(9), 1976-1985, 2010.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">October 3, 2011 (13:30～15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">"Studies of Soft Condensed Matter Systems Using Molecular Simulations: Recent Developments in Non-Additive Electrostatic Potentials and Applications"</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Sandeep Patel (Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Delaware, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Molecular simulations today are applied across many scientific disciplines. Complementing experiment, these tools afford a molecular-level understanding and interpretation of physico-chemical processes at spatial and temporal resolutions inaccessible to experiment. At the heart of such methods is the description of interactions between atoms and molecules, the force field. Traditionally, non-reactive force fields have treated electrostatic interactions using an additive, Coulomb model between fixed partial charges on atomic sites. Though quite successful, there has been conjecture as to the effects of incorporating non-additivity in classical force fields, particularly in biological systems. Over the last several decades, attempts to incorporate electrostatic non-additivity in the form of inducible dipole interactions or dynamically varying partial charges have provided a vast body of knowledge that has aided in the development of a new class of force fields attempting to explicitly account for non-additive effects. We will present our recent work in developing one such class of models, charge equilibration force fields, and select applications of such models to aqueous solution interfaces, ion solvation and specific ion effects, hydrophobocity, model membrane bilayers and simple integral membrane peptides such as the gramicidin A bacterial channel, and protein-ligand binding. Finally, we will discuss recent development and application of graphical processing units (GPU&#8217;s) for molecular dynamics simulations.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 20, 2011 (13:30～15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">"Membrane Protein Functional Dynamics"</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Morten O. Jensen (D.E.Shaw Research, New York, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Long molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, which recently reached the millisecond timescale for the first time, may prove a powerful tool in advancing the understanding of protein function. Here I will discuss our MD studies of the conformational changes associated with ion channel voltage gating. Our results reveal an atomic-level structural mechanism applicable to the entire Na<small><sup>+</sup></small>/K<small><sup>+</sup></small>/Ca<small><sup>2+</sup></small> voltage-gated ion channel superfamily, reconciling much apparently conflicting experimental data.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 2, 2011 (10:00～15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&quot;生体高分子におけるエネルギー移動過程の解明へ向けて&quot;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Kiyoshi Yagi (University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>エネルギー・環境問題の解決は新触媒の発見が鍵である．現在，工業的に実用化されている触媒は，有機金属錯体などの均一系触媒と担体に金属等を固定した不均一系触媒とに大別される．前者は高活性・高選択性を有することが特徴で，要求の厳しい創薬や有機合成で用いられる．しかし，均一系触媒は溶液に溶かして用いられるため，回収が困難なのが欠点である．従って，多くの工業的な化学反応には，頑丈かつ回収が容易な不均一系触媒が好まれる．一方，第３の触媒として，酵素のような生体触媒がある．天然の生体触媒は工業触媒に匹敵するTOFを有し，大変有望である．しかし，人工的な修正を加えると多くの場合失活する．この原因は，反応物（基質）を巧妙に認識する機能が人口修飾の際に失われてしまうため，と考えられている．酵素と基質の関係は鍵と鍵穴によく例えられるが，高活性な触媒として機能するためには，形の一致だけでなく，反応物を捕まえ，生成物をリリースするというサイクルが効率良く働かなければならない．このような動的機構に対する基礎的な理解は未だ不十分であり，そのため設計指針が立たないのが現状である．酵素の高い分子認識能力はエネルギー移動過程と密接な関係にあるように思う．分子を認識したという信号（エネルギー）が伝わり，次のアクションの引き金を引く，という仕組みがアミノ酸配列の中に隠されているはずである．これを理論的に解き明かすことが我々の大きな目標である．我々は分子振動理論の開発に携わってきた．従来の振動理論は孤立小分子（~10原子）が対象であったが，我々はその適用範囲を拡大し，数百自由度を扱える方法論を提案した．さらに，現在，タンパク（数千自由度）を対象とした理論開発を進めている．ただし，ここでの開発方針は単純なスケールアップではない．大自由度系にありながら，特異的なエネルギーの流れを作ることは可能なのか，それはどのような因子で制御されるのか，という疑問に答えるには現実的なモデルが必要である．具体的には，振動モード間のエネルギー交換における量子効果，調和・非調和カップリングの影響について議論する．</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">August 4, 2011 (13:30～15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">"Spontaneous Binding and Insertion of Membrane-Anchoring Proteins Captured by a Novel Membrane-Mimetic System"</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Zenmei Ohkubo (Department of Biochemistry and Beckman Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Characterizing atomic details of membrane binding of peripheral membrane proteins by molecular dynamics (MD) has been seriously hindered by the slow dynamics of membrane reorganization associated with the phenomena. Consequently, the resulting structures are largely biased by the initial configuration of the lipids and proteins in the simulation system. To expedite lateral diffusion of lipid molecules and to accelerate formation of the optimal interaction between peripheral proteins and lipid headgroups during MD simulations, we have developed a highly mobile membrane mimetic (HMMM) model. The HMMM model is composed of an organic solvent layer as the hydrophobic core sandwiched by water and with short-tailed phospholipids at the interface whose acyl tails are immersed in the organic phase. This configuration is formed spontaneously and rapidly, regardless of the initial position or orientation of the short-tailed lipids. The short-tailed lipids in the HMMM model exhibit about two orders of magnitude larger lateral diffusion than full lipids in conventional membrane models, whereas the membrane profile of the HMMM model is essentially the same as those of the full-membrane models. As a challenging test of membrane binding of a peripheral protein without any guide, the GLA domain of human coagulation factor FVII was initially placed in bulk water in the HMMM model to simulate. During the MD simulation, the GLA domain inserted itself into the membrane spontaneously and reproducibly, with interactions closely matching those obtained previously using full membranes. The HMMM model is extremely efficient in capturing the mechanism of membrane binding of a wide spectrum of peripheral proteins, as well as other membrane-associated phenomena.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">June 9, 2011 (13:30～15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">"Binding and Folding of Intrinsically Disordered Proteins: Nascent Structures vs Intrinsic Flexibility"</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Jinahan Chen (Department of Biochemistry, Kansas State University, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) are a class of newly recognized functional proteins that rely on a lack of stable structure for function. They are highly prevalent in biology, play key roles in crucial cellular functions, and are extensively involved human diseases. For signaling and regulation, IDPs frequently fold into stable structures upon recognition of specific targets. Understanding the mechanisms of these binding-folding interactions is of significant importance because they underlie the organization of important regulatory networks that control various aspects of cellular decision-making. I will discuss some of the key lessons that we have learned from our recent atomistic and coarse-grained simulations several small regulatory IDPs. In particular, I will discuss how an intriguing interplay of nascent structures, intrinsic flexibility, and charges might facilitate efficient and versatile regulation of IDP function.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">January 26, 2011 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Conformational dynamics of peptides in cellular environments from multiscale simulations.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Michael Feig (Department of Biochemistry &#038; Molecular Biology, Michigan State University, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Biological environments provide complex physiochemical environments due to heterogeneity and crowding. This presents challenges for fully understanding the functionally-relevant structure and dynamics of biological macromolecules in vivo from both experimental and computational studies. In this talk, novel computational approaches are presented that allow the effects of cellular environments to be included efficiently in molecular dynamics simulations. A particular focus is on multiscale methodologies including mean-field formalisms and a new transferable coarse-grained model. Such simulations were applied to the study of the conformational dynamics of membrane-interacting peptides and peptides in crowded protein environments. More specifically, conformational sampling of viral membrane peptides and the membrane-spanning peptide phospholamban are described and discussed in the context of experimental data. Furthermore, the computational sampling of melittin in crowded cellular environments is discussed.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">January 26, 2011 (13:30 – 14:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Theoretical Reaction Mechanisms on Silicon Surface.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Cheol Ho Choi (Department of Chemistry, College of Natural Sciences, Kyungpook National University, Korea)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
  <p>Due to the potential applications in semiconductor industries, the surface chemical reactions particularly on semiconductor surface have gained enormous popularity and the interest is still growing.[1]　With the help of traditional organic and organometallic chemistry, a wide variety of new chemically modified silicon surfaces can be synthesized to provide fine tailoring of surface characteristics for a broad range of applications. To gain the control needed to fabricate an organic function into existing semiconductor technologies and ultimately to make new molecule-scale devices, a detailed understanding of the adsorbate surface as well as interfacial chemical reactions and their products at the atomic/molecular level is critical. To accomplish this, theoretical investigations need to play a significant role in the advance of this field. This talk begins with the theoretical methodologies adapted for surface studies and then proceeds to a consideration of the unique features of clean silicon surfaces. Then, the main focus is directed to the characteristics of surface structures and reaction mechanisms that have been theoretically accumulated for the last several years. The key understandings of surface cyloadditions, nuleophilc additions, and surface thermal decompositions shall be discussed.</p>
  <p>[1] a) Choi, C. H.; Gordon, M. S. “Computational Materials Chemistry: Methods and Applications”, L.A. Curtiss and M.S. Gordon, Eds., Kluwer Academic Publishers, Ch. 4, pp. 125-190, 2004. “Theoretical Studies of Silicon Surface Reactions with Main Group Absorbates” b) Journal of Physical Chemistry C (2010), 114(33), 14187-14192.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2010{#2010}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">November 19, 2010 (13:30 &#8211; 15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="organizer">Ryuhei Harada (University of Tokyo)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 28, 2010 (16:00 &#8211; 17:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Free-energy analysis of functional, self-organizing systems in solution.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Associate Professor Nobuyuki Matsubayashi (Institute for Chemical Research, Kyoto University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The free-energy analysis is essential to understand and control a chemical process in condensed phase. The current status of theoretical/computation chemistry is, however, that the free energy remains a most difficult quantity to compute. For the fast computation and molecular understanding of the free energy, a new theory of solutions is introduced and is combined with molecular simulation. This theory is called the method of energy representation, and constructs the solvation free energy as a functional of distribution functions of the solute-solvent pair interaction energy. The method of energy representation greatly expands the scope of solution theory and is amenable to such frontline topics of physical chemistry and biophysics as ionic liquid, supercritical fluid, flexible molecules with intramolecular degrees of freedom, inhomogeneous system, and quantum-mechanical/molecular-mechanical (QM/MM) system. We present a brief introduction to the distribution-function theory of solutions, and describe the method of energy representation with its performance. As an application to inhomogeneous system involving flexible species, the molecular binding into micelle and lipid membrane is analyzed by treating micelle and membrane as a mixed solvent system consisting of water and amphiphilic molecule. The free energy of protein hydration is also evaluated with explicit solvent, and the roles of excluded volume and hydrogen bonding are quantitatively discussed.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">March 11, 2010 (13:00 &#8211; 15:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Molecular Modeling and Simulations:Challenges and Beyond.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Wonpil Im (University of Kansas, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Over the last three decades, considerable efforts have been made to generalize and enhance the computational methodologies and techniques to model and simulate macromolecules of biological interest. In particular, molecular dynamics simulations have provided deeper insights into not only how they interact with the surrounding environment at the atomic level, but also the microscopic driving forces of their functions, especially when the simulations are combined with sophisticated free energy calculations. In this seminar, I would like to present the challenges of current molecular modeling and simulations in terms of their accessibility to general users including experimentalists,
    issues with the system size and time scale, and finally accuracy. Several case studies will be presented with some preliminary results in my research group to go possibly beyond the challenges.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">March 9, 2010 (13:30 &#8211; 15:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;All-atom Go-like simulations of the accommodation step in translation: reversible excursions of tRNA into and out of the ribosome.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Kevin Sanbonmatsu (Theoretical Biology and Biophysics, Theoretical Division, Los Alamos National Laboratory, USA</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The ribosome is a stochastic molecular machine responsible for protein synthesis, a process central to all organisms. During the decoding step of protein synthesis (tRNA selection), the ribosome must discriminate between correct and incorrect tRNAs. The process by which tRNAs move from the partially bound (&#8216;A/T state&#8217;) to fully bound (&#8216;A/A&#8217;) state is rate-limiting in the case of correct
    (cognate) tRNAs. This large conformational change (~70 Angstrom tRNA movement) is known as accommodation and is the subject of our study. We use several different large-scale molecular simulation techniques to study the process of accommodation. Explicit solvent targeted molecular dynamics simulations allow us to define the accommodation
    corridor for tRNA on the large subunit of the ribosome. All-atom structure-based simulations using a Go-like potential allow us extend our approximate timescale to hundreds of milliseconds, revealing stochastic reversible excursions of the tRNA from the A/T state towards the A/A state and back to the A/T state, consistent with similar events observed in single molecule FRET studies. These
    structure-based simulations are cross-validated against equilibrium explicit solvent simulations (3.2 million atoms) with one microsecond of total sampling. Reasonable agreement is obtained between structure-based simulation, explicit solvent simulation, and crystalographic B-factors. The Encanto and RoadRunner supercomputers were used.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2009{#2009}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 14, 2009 (13:00 &#8211; 14:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Multi-scale simulations of biomolecules: methods and applications.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Qiang Cui (Department of Chemistry and Theoretical Chemistry Institute, University of Wisconsin, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>tba</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 14, 2009 (10:30 &#8211; 12:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3>&#8220;Visualizing the Dynamics of Membrane Transport at Sub-Angstrom Resolution.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Emad Tajkhorshid (University of Illinois at Urbana Champaign, USA)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 10, 2009 (14:00 &#8211; 15:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Statistical Analysis of the Collective Modes of Biomolecules.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Pai-Chi Li (Washington University in St. Louis, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Principal component analysis (PCA) of molecular dynamics (MD)   simulations is a powerful tool for investigating the collective   motions of biomolecules. Due to the roughness of a protein&#8217;s energy   landscape, the large-amplitude collective modes resulting from PCA are   typically anharmonic. Here we decompose the PCA space to sub-PCA   spaces by using the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm. Each of   these sub-PCA spaces represents a conformational state and the   distribution of each state is described by a multivariate Gaussian   distribution. The dynamics of the protein on the PCA space is then   described as a diffusion/jumping process between different   conformational states. We have applied this procedure to the MD   trajectories of two proteins: crambin (1 μs simulation) and profilin   (440 ns simulation). The number of states predicted initially   increased with the dimensionality of PCA modes, but reached a plateau   for dimensions greater than five. Furthermore, conformations can be   divided into states based on the Gaussian mixture models and the   transition network between states can be determined. The main   advantage of this EM procedure is that it is significantly fast.   However the method does not guarantee to find the optimal solutions   for higher dimensions. This procedure is especially useful to do   conformational clustering on the low-dimensional anharmonic &quot;essential   space&quot;. In order to determine such an &quot;essential space&quot;, we have   developed a statistical protocol involving estimation of the   relaxation time of each individual mode, bootstrap analysis of the   independent data based on the relaxation time, and application of a   statistical goodness-of-fit test on the data to quantify normality.   Using a simple model system of harmonic springs, we demonstrate the   application and sensitivity of this technique and its ability to   correctly identify the harmonic and anharmonic modes of the system.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 13, 2009 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3>Molecular Recognition Between Human Immunoregulatory Receptor LILR Family and HLA-G Antigen.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Associate Professor Katsumi Maenaka (Institute of Medical Science, Kyushu University)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">February 19, 2009 (13:30 &#8211; 15:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Extended Ensemble Molecular Dynamics Simulations of Biomolecules: Multibaric-Multithermal Method and Partially Multicanonical Method.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Hisashi Okumura (BioMaPS Institute for Quantitative Biology, Rutgers University, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Molecular dynamics simulations of biomolecules and other substances with complex free energy landscapes often result in trapping in free energy minima, preventing extensive structural exploration. To overcome this limitation, methods collectively referred to as extended ensemble methods have recently been widely adopted. One such powerful method is the multicanonical method. However, it has limitations: it does not allow for the specification of pressure, as it maintains constant volume, and it cannot handle phenomena that involve volume changes. Additionally, it requires the determination of weight factors before starting the simulation, which becomes increasingly difficult for large systems. To address these issues, we have recently proposed two methods. To solve the first issue, we proposed the multibaric-multithermal method [1-5]. This method enables random walks in both energy and volume spaces. We applied this method to alanine dipeptide in water and compared it with existing methods [6,7]. In conventional isothermal-isobaric simulations, structures were trapped in free energy minima, limiting the range of sampled conformations. In contrast, the multibaric-multithermal method allowed for broader structural sampling without being trapped in free energy minima. Furthermore, we examined temperature and pressure variations of these structures and calculated the differences in partial molar enthalpy and partial molar volume between them, which showed good agreement with experimental results from Raman scattering. The differences in partial molar enthalpy and partial molar volume are important physical properties that indicate how the probabilities of each structure change with temperature and pressure. However, until now, no method existed to calculate these values using molecular simulations. Our approach has made it possible to compute the partial molar enthalpy and partial molar volume differences of biomolecules through molecular simulations for the first time. To address the second issue, we proposed the partially multicanonical method [8]. In this approach, only the potential energy terms necessary for extensive structural sampling are widely sampled. This reduces the effort required to determine weight factors, leading to more efficient structural sampling. We applied this method to alanine dipeptide in water and compared it with the canonical and multicanonical methods. The results showed that the multicanonical method explored a broader range of structures than the canonical method, and the partially multicanonical method was even more efficient in structural exploration.<br>
    [1] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: Chem. Phys. Lett. 383 (2004) 391-396.<br>
    [2] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: Phys. Rev. E 70 (2004) 026702(14pages).<br>
    [3] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: J. Phys. Soc. Jpn. 73 (2004) 3304-3311.<br>
    [4] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: Chem. Phys. Lett. 391 (2004) 248-253.<br>
    [5] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: J. Comput. Chem. 27 (2006) 379-395.<br>
    [6] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 80 (2007)1114-1123.<br>
    [7] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: J. Phys. Chem. B 112 (2008),12038-12049.<br>
    [8] H. Okumura: J. Chem. Phys. 129 (2008) 124116 (9 pages).</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">January 7, 2009 (13:30 &#8211; 14:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Molecular dynamic simulations of Nuclear Receptors: Pushing the boarders of MD.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Sofia Burendahl (Karolinska Institutet, Sweden) </div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Molecular Dynamic (MD) simulations have been successfully used to study molecular events like structural stability and molecular interaction but many of the molecular mechanism which takes place in the cell are acting on a timescale beyond the capacity of a traditional MD simulation. Such an event is the ligand unbinding from the Nuclear Receptors (NR). The NRs functions as a transcription regulator and can be activated upon ligand binding. Consequently ligand binding and unbinding constitutes a fundamental process in the regulation of genes. Even though both biochemical and structural data of NR are available, the actual mechanism of the ligand binding/unbinding remains elusive. We have performed ligand unbinding studies on NRs with modified the MD methods (1) Random Acceleration MD (RAMD) (2) and Steered MD (SMD) (3) which speed up the timescale. The results show that agonist ligand unbinding can take place from the receptor without causing major conformational changes in the receptor, while antagonist unbinding cannot. Further on ligand selectivity and method sampling were discussed.<br>
    Allosteric properties have previously been studied with covariance correlation analysis and normal mode analysis. However, these methods requires long MD simulation trajectory to detect the signal. Recently publication presented the Anisotropic Thermal Diffusion method (4) which increases the signal-noise ratio within the protein and therefore makes it possible to detect an allosteric signal. The method was used to study allosteric properties in the NR Liver X Receptor (LXR) and succeeded to map out a pathway from the AF-2 region and the ligand. The signaling pathway detected is both intra- and intermolecular and is transmitted through amino acids side chains and the backbone. Although promising results were achieved, the method contains some drawbacks which will also be discussed.<br>
    1. Carlsson, P., S. Burendahl and L. Nilsson. (2006) Unbinding of retinoic acid from the retinoic acid receptor by random expulsion molecular dynamics. Biophys J 91, 3151-61.</p>
    <p>2. Ludemann, S. K., V. Lounnas and R. C. Wade. (2000) How do substrates enter and products exit the buried active site of cytochrome P450cam? 1. Random expulsion molecular dynamics investigation of ligand access channels and mechanisms. Journal of Molecular Biology 303, 797-811.</p>
    <p>3. Isralewitz, B., M. Gao and K. Schulten. (2001) Steered molecular dynamics and mechanical functions of proteins. Curr Opin Struct Biol 11, 224-30.</p>
    <p>4. Ota, N. and D. A. Agard. (2005) Intramolecular signaling pathways revealed by modeling anisotropic thermal diffusion. J Mol Biol 351, 345-54</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2008{#2008}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 28, 2008 (14:15 &#8211; 15:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3>Development and Prospects of Anharmonic Vibrational State Theory.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Kiyoshi Yagi (Department of Applied Chemistry, Graduate School of Engineering, The University of Tokyo)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 28, 2008 (13:00 &#8211; 14:15)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3>&#8220;From Protein Kinases to G Protein-Coupled Receptors: Computational Techniques for Drug Design and Biophysical Studies.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Andrea Bortolato (Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, USA)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">May 15, 2008 (13:30 &#8211; 14:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Protein Homology Identification Using FUGUE.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Kenji Mizuguchi (National Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Independent Administrative Institution)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Recent advances in the field of structural and functional bioinformatics have made it possible to propose novel hypotheses regarding protein structure, function, and interactions using computational approaches. By utilizing these methods, it is expected that enhancing general knowledge about genes and proteins potentially involved in diseases—such as the molecular functions of each protein, their interaction partners, and the pathways they belong to—will be beneficial in the field of drug discovery. In this presentation, we discuss the fundamental theory of FUGUE, a method we have developed for predicting protein three-dimensional structures from amino acid sequences, as well as its specific applications to enzymes, membrane proteins, and other cases.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 23, 2008 (16:00 &#8211; 17:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Simulation of transport properties of heterogeneous systems&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof.Jean-Marc Simon (Center for Advanced Study at the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters, Norway)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The diffusion of mass and the conductivity of heat take their origin at a molecular scale in the molecular motion and in the interaction between molecules. Molecular dynamics simulation is used to investigate these properties both under equilibrium and out of equilibrium. After a short presentation of these methods and of the transport equations, I will show the results we recently obtained of the transport properties across interfaces in two cases liquid-vapour and zeolite-vapour.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 17, 2008 (11:00 &#8211; 12:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Constructing molecular potential energy surfaces with help from invariant theory and computer algebra.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Bastiaan J. Braams（Emory University, Atlanta, GA）</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Analytical fitted potential energy surfaces are a valuable tool for study of reaction dynamics and molecular spectroscopy.  In full generality the surface depends on 3N-6 independent coordinates, where N is the number of nuclei, and the construction of such surfaces is a problem of high-dimensional approximation already for small systems, say of 5-9 atoms.  For the effective construction of such surfaces we have found it essential to enforce strictly the property of invariance of the surface under permutation of like nuclei; we build this property into the basis of fitting functions expressed in internuclear distances.  The construction of these permutationally invariant basis functions (and covariant basis functions for properties such as the dipole moment) is a nontrivial task that cannot well be carried out by hand except for the simplest systems.  We rely on computational invariant theory and on the MAGMA computer algebra system to construct suitable bases for each possible molecular permutation symmetry group,and have pursued that approach for systems up to 9 and 10 atoms. Illustrative challenging recent applications in the Bowman group at Emory University include photodissociation of acetaldehyde and spectroscopy of malonaldehyde and the water trimer.  In the talk I will describe the mathematical background and highlights of new applications.  This work is supported by ONR and USDOE.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">March 13, 2008 (16:00 &#8211; 17:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Insertion, folding, tilting, and assembly of transmembrane helices.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Wonpil Im (University of Kansas, USA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Membrane proteins are pharmaceutically important therapeutic targets because of their well-recognized contribution to ion transport, intracellular and intercellular signaling pathways, and critical role in cell-cell recognition.Transmembrane (TM) domains of most membrane proteins consist of helices that interact with each other via inter- and intra-helix-helix interactions as well as with nonprotein membrane constituents. In this talk,I will present the computational/theoretical studies of membrane protein folding processes as insertion, folding, tilting, and assembly of transmembrane helices. If time is allowed, I will also talk about our novel RDC restraint potential and its applications, as well as the CHARMM-GUI development project.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2007{#2007}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">December 17, 2007 (15:30 &#8211; 16:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Molecular Dynamics Simulation of Alanine Dipeptide Using an Extended Ensemble Method for Pressure Control.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Hisashi Okumura (Nagoya University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The multicanonical method enables a random walk in the potential energy space. In contrast, we have recently proposed a new extended ensemble method, the multibaric-multithermal method. This method realizes a random walk in both energy and volume spaces, allowing the generation of isothermal-isobaric ensembles over a wide range of temperatures and pressures. In this study, we applied the multibaric-multithermal molecular dynamics method to alanine dipeptide in water and investigated the temperature and pressure dependence of its structure [1]. The Amber parm96 and Amber parm99 force fields were used for the peptide. Based on the temperature and pressure dependence of the probability ratio of each state, we calculated the partial molar enthalpy differences and partial molar volume differences between states. Furthermore, we discuss the force field dependence of these results.<br>
    [1] H. Okumura and Y. Okamoto: Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 80 (2007)1114-1123.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">December 7, 2007 (15:30 &#8211; 16:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Reduced scaling electronic structure calculations: preparing for petaflop computing.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Henrik Koch (Trondheim University, Norway)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>We present a novel approach to the calculation of coulomb and exchange contributions to the total electronic energy in Hartree-Fock and Density Functional Theory.The key numerical procedure is the Cholesky decomposition that previously has been shown to efficiently remove linear dependence in the two-electron integral matrix.The basic idea is to decompose specific matrices that enter the energy expression.In this way we obtain an auxiliary basis (cholesky basis) that is much smaller than currently used in the resolution of identity or density fitting approaches.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 27, 2007 (13:30 &#8211; 14:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Statistical thermodynamic study of urea solutions at different concentrations.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Henrik Koch (Trondheim University, Norway)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Activity coefficients (chemical potential) of urea solutions are calculated to explore the mechanism of its solution properties which form the basis for its well known use as a strong protein denaturant. We perform free energy simulations of urea solutions in different urea concentrations using two urea models (OPLS and KBFF models)to calculate and decompose the activity coefficients. For the case of urea, we clarify the concept of the ideal solution in different concentration scales and standard states and its effect on our subsequent analysis.The analytical form of activity coefficients depends on the concentration units and standard states.For both models studied urea displays a weak concentration dependence for excess chemical potential.However, for the OPLS force field model this results from contributions which are independent of concentration to the van der Waals and electrostatic components whereas for the KBFF model those components are nontrivial but oppose each other.The strong ideality of urea solutions in some concentration scales,implying a lack of water perturbation, is discussed in terms of recent data and ideas on the mechanism of urea denaturation of proteins. [1,2]<br>
      [1] H. Kokubo and B. M. Pettitt,Preferential Solvation in Urea Solutions at Different Concentrations: Properties from Simulation Studies,J. Phys. Chem. B 111, 5233 -5242 (2007).<br>
      [2] H. Kokubo, J. Roesgen, D. W. Bolen, and B. M. Pettitt,Molecular Basis of the Apparent Near Ideality of Urea Solutions,Biophy. J. (2007) in press.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 18, 2007 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Normal Mode Analysis of the Cytotoxic Polypeptide Polytheonamide B Derived from Sponges.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Takaharu Mori (Nagoya University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Polytheonamide B is a 48-residue polypeptide with strong cytotoxicity, isolated and purified from the sponge Theonella swinhoei collected in Hachijojima. This peptide contains seven types of amino acids that are methylated or hydroxylated in addition to standard amino acids. Furthermore, its D- and L-amino acids are arranged alternately, forming a β6.3-helix structure within the cell membrane, which creates a cation-selective channel. Our research group aims to elucidate the channel mechanism of Polytheonamide B at the atomic level. Based on normal mode analysis, we investigated the molecular dynamics of Polytheonamide B in a vacuum. Additionally, we analyzed Gramicidin A, the only structural and functional analog of Polytheonamide B, and compared the results to discuss the channel mechanism of Polytheonamide B.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">June 7, 2007 (14:00 &#8211; 15:30)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Microwave Heating of Water and Metal Powders.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Motohiko Tanaka (National Institute for Fusion Science)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Microwaves are low-energy, low-frequency photons, yet they can efficiently and selectively heat polarizable liquid and metallic powders. In this talk, recent molecular dynamics simulation results of the heating process of water, ice and salty water will be presented,with research prospects of microwave heating of metallic powders.<br>
    参考：<br>
    <a href="http://phonon.nifs.ac.jp/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">マイクロ波励起・高温非平衡反応場の科学</a><br>
    <a href="http://scitation.aip.org/getabs/servlet/GetabsServlet?prog=normal&amp;id=JCPSA6000126000003034509000001&amp; idtype=cvips&amp;gifs=yes" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Tanaka and Sato, J.Chem.Phys., 126, 034509 (2007).</a></p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 24, 2007 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label>RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">Conformational Sampling of Peptides in Cellular Environments.</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Michael Feig（Michigan State University, USA）</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Computer simulations are ideally suited to study the conformational dynamics of biological macromolecules. Although such methods have been widely used, two major challenges are how to reach biologically relevant time scales and how to represent the effect of biological environments accurately. Implicit solvent models can be used to address both of these issues.The application of continuum electrostatics models for aqueous solvent, dense cellular environments, and biological environments is discussed.Results from implicit solvent simulations of protein G, ubiquitin, and alanine dipeptide are compared to explicit solvent simulations and experiments to demonstrate that implicit solvent treatments can provide a high level of accuracy in dilute aqueous solvent.The conformational sampling of alanine dipeptide, poly-alanine, and melittin is studied in dense cellular environments modeled as reduced dielectric media to understand how realistic biological environments might alter the conformational preferences of biomolecules. Finally, long-time conformational sampling of the transmembrane peptide phospholamban as a function of phosphorylation is discussed to illustrate how implicit membrane models can be applied to study the relation between its dynamics and its function as a regulatory protein of SERCA, a heart muscle ATPase Ca2+ pump.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

