---
title: '2022-2026'
date: 2025-09-01T14:38:07+09:00
draft: false
description: ''
keywords: []
---

<ul class="anchor-links">
  <li><a href="#2025">2025</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2024">2024</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2023">2023</a></li>
  <li><a href="#2022">2022</a></li>
</ul>

## 2025{#2025}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第24回：2025年6月17日(火) 15:00〜16:00</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Folding genomes at nucleosome resolution: Multiscale modeling and merging physicochemical potentials with machine learning approaches&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Tamar Schlick (New York University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Research with Stephanie Portillo, Zilong Li, and Sangram Kadam, New York University
    Molecular modeling and simulation is now recognized as a field on its own right capable of making key mechanistic insights into biomolecular processes. Notable successes include prediction of conformational transitions and mechanisms; generation of new insights into biomolecular activity; and thriving collaborations between modeling and experimentation, including experiments driven by modelinghemical. As examples from my lab, I will describe mesoscale and multiscale modeling applications of genome folding, showing how we use tailored algorithms like DiSCO (Discrete Surface Charge Optimization) and Brownian dynamics to fold genes, recover chromosome conformations from Hi-C maps, and solve frontier problems in the epigenetic regulation of the genome and its relation to human disease.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第23回：2025年4月25日(水) 14:00〜15:00</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Computational chemistry tools to study olefin metathesis and other important catalytic reactions&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Bartosz Trzaskowski (CeNT &#038; University of Warsaw) </div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The olefin metathesis reaction of forming new C-C bonds is one of the most important reactions in organic synthesis. In recent years, we have made a number of contributions to the development of new metathesis catalysts. Some of the highlights of our research include the development of the highly efficient catalyst for ethenolysis, which showed a remarkable turnover number of 2.6 million at very low catalyst loading [1], the development of highly stable, latent catalyst efficient in ring-closing metathesis [2], and the design of a sterically tuned catalyst for efficient formation of hindered products [3]. We also found that electronic properties of catalysts such as chemical potential, hardness, and electrophilicity correlate linearly with dissociative energy barriers, making these properties a useful tool for rapidly assessing the catalytic properties of Ru catalysts [4].</p>
    <p>1. R. Gawin, A. Tracz, P. Krajczy, A. Kozakiewicz-Piekarz, J.P. Martinez, B. Trzaskowski,
      &#8220;Inhibition of the Decomposition Pathways of Ruthenium Olefin Metathesis Catalysts: Development of the Highly Efficient Catalysts for Ethenolysis&#8221;,
      J. Am. Chem. Soc., 145, 25010-25021 (2023)
    </p>
    <p>2. W. Kośnik, D. Lichosyt, M. Śnieżek, A. Janaszkiewicz, K. Woźniak, M. Malińska, B. Trzaskowski, A. Kajetanowicz, K. Grela,
      &#8220;Ruthenium Olefin Metathesis Catalysts Bearing Macrocyclic N-Heterocyclic Carbene Ligand: Improved Stability and Activity&#8221;,
      Angew. Chem. Int. Ed., 61, e202201472 (2022).
    </p>
    <p>3. S. Planer, A. Małecki, B. Trzaskowski, A. Kajetanowicz, K. Grela,
      &#8220;Sterically tuned N-heterocyclic carbene ligands for the efficient formation of hindered products in Ru-catalyzed olefin metathesis&#8221;,
      ACS Catalysis, 10, 11394-11404 (2020);
    </p>
    <p>4. J.P. Martinez, B. Trzaskowski,
      &#8220;Electrophilicity of Hoveyda-Grubbs Olefin Metathesis Catalysts as the Driving Force that Controls Initiation Rates&#8221;,
      ChemPhysChem, 23, e202200580 (2022).
    </p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第22回：2025年4月24日(水) 16:00〜17:00</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Linear Response Theories to Understand Perturbed Protein Dynamics and Their Applications&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Lee Wei Yang (National Tsing Hua University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Proteins can be conceptualized as physiochemically interconnected networks, both internally and through external interactions. Within these networks, allostery describes the observed communication between distant residues. In addition to strong academic interest in the mechanistic understanding of functionally relevant communication pathways and key mediators, the pharmaceutical industry has also recognized its therapeutic potential—particularly due to lower toxicity and fewer side effects stemming from the moderate evolutionary conservation of allosteric sites. Despite this interest, computationally efficient methods capable of accurately identifying allosteric sites at atomistic resolution remain limited.In the past several years, we introduced a time-dependent linear response theory (td-LRT) that integrates intrinsic protein dynamics with perturbation forces. These forces induce temporary protein reconfigurations into non-equilibrium states, allowing atom-specific responses to be tracked over time as mechanical signals propagate through the network. Our analysis revealed that residues frequently involved in remote communication corresponded to crucial allosteric sites. Notably, mutations at these sites significantly reduced the hydride transfer rate in DHFR, demonstrating their functional importance. Additionally, we observed a preferred directionality in signal propagation, evident from the asymmetrical connection matrix (CM). Within this matrix, the communication score (CS) between residue pairs quantifies their coupling strength, correlating closely with experimental observations of nonadditivity in double mutants. Moreover, intramolecular communication centers (ICCs), identified by high CS values, exhibit strong evolutionary conservation, highlighting their biological relevance.Furthermore, we identified a novel allosteric site in ATG4B characterized by spatially clustered ICCs. Screening over 2,000 US FDA-approved drugs for interactions with this site revealed two compounds that not only displayed favorable binding in MD simulations but also effectively inhibited ATG4B biochemically. Both drugs demonstrated tumor-suppressive effects in colorectal, pancreatic, and triple-negative breast cancer cell lines, and showed additive therapeutic effects when combined with an active-site inhibitor.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 15, 2025 (14:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Peptide-based strategies to target pathogenic bacteria&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Joanna Trylska (University of Warsaw)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Clinically used antibiotics have become ineffective due to their misuse and the constant emergence of resistant bacteria. Using both experimental and computational approaches, we have been designing antibacterial compounds that can be synthesized through peptide chemistry.<br>
    One class of compounds is based on membrane-active peptides that destabilize bacterial membranes, leading to cell death. These peptides are amphipathic and disordered in water but adopt a secondary structure when near lipids, which is essential for their antibacterial activity.<br>
    I will present examples of short oligopeptides that are disordered in buffer solutions and adopt a helical structure near lipid surfaces, resulting in disintegration of bacterial membranes. To stabilize the secondary structure of these peptides, we used the hydrocarbon stapling method. This stabilization initiated or enhanced their antibacterial properties.<br>
    Another peptide-based molecule we use as an antibacterial agent is peptide nucleic acid (PNA), a synthetic DNA mimic, with a peptide-like backbone. PNA binds DNA or RNA in a sequence-specific manner, so we use PNA to target mRNAs encoding essential proteins to inhibit bacterial growth.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 15, 2025 (14:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Learning physical interactions for molecular dynamics simulations&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Sereina Riniker (ETH Zurich)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>From simple clustering techniques to sophisticated neural networks, the use of machine learning has become a valuable tool in many fields of chemistry in the past decades. Here, we describe different ways in which we explore the use of machine learning (ML) for predict physical interactions between particles in molecular dynamics (MD) simulations in order to improve their accuracy. In classical MD simulations, the physical interactions between atoms are described with an empirical force field. This involves a large number of parameters for each molecule, which are fitted to quantum-mechanical (QM) or available experimental data. There is a need for more accurate and general force fields. In this context, we demonstrate how ML approaches can aid in force-field development, from multipole prediction to generalized parametrization. In addition, we explore the use of ML for increasing the speed and accuracy of QM/MM MD simulations, and for improving implicit solvent models to reproduce local effects of explicit solvent molecules.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2024{#2024}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">December 16, 2024 (11:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-online">ONLINE</label>
  <div class="place">Online Seminar</div>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Naoto Hori (Nottingham University)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 10, 2024 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Kenneth M. Merz Jr. (Michigan State University)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">July 10, 2024 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Modeling conformational cycles of ion channels on millisecond scale&#8221; (Prof. Erik Lindahl (Stockholm University & KTH))</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Erik Lindahl (Stockholm University &#038; KTH)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Ligand-gated ion channels mediate chemical signaling throughout the nervous system. They function by selectively binding neurotransmitters in an extracellular domain, which leads to conformational changes that eventually open an ion conducting pore through the membrane, and numerous drugs such as anesthetics and alcohol modulate this process. We use a combination of cryo-electron microscopy and molecular simulations to determine the different conformational states in this process, and to understand selectivity as well as allosteric modulation. In particular, Markov State Models combined with thousands of microsecond-scale simulations enable us to model the full conformational landscape of the functional cycles occurring on millisecond timescales.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">May 23, 2024 (11:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-online">ONLINE</label>
  <div class="place">Online Seminar</div>
  <h3>&#8220;Modeling conformational cycles of ion channels on millisecond scale&#8221; (Dr. Jeremy C Smith (Oak Ridge National Laboratory))</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Jeremy C Smith (Oak Ridge National Laboratory)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">January 17, 2024 (13:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-online">ONLINE</label>
  <div class="place">Online Seminar</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Interactions of Kratom Alkaloids with Membrane Lipid Bilayers&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Siti Azma (Faculty of Pharmacy, Universiti Teknologi MARA)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Prominent alkaloids derived from Mitragyna speciosa exhibit considerable potential for various
    pharmacological applications. Yet, their molecular interactions with cellular membranes remain
    poorly understood. In this study, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations were employed to
    investigate the behavior of three alkaloid compounds (mitragynine, 7-hydroxymitragynine and
    mitragynine pseudoindoxyl) with lipid bilayers. Several model systems comprising pure and/or
    mixed alkaloids were embedded in a fully hydrated dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC) lipid
    bilayer, and simulated using the GROMACS program for a duration of 100-200 ns. The
    simulation results show the alkaloids diffused into the lipid bilayer region in less than 50 ns
    duration. We observed the molecules preferentially position themselves beneath the lipid head
    groups. Hydrogen bonds were formed between alkaloids and the carbonyl and phosphate
    groups of the lipid bilayer, as well as water molecules from the aqueous region. These findings
    highlight the hydrophobic nature of the alkaloids, facilitating their integration into lipid bilayers.
    This study contributes valuable insights for the development of therapeutic strategies targeting
    membrane-associated processes.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2023{#2023}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">December 25, 2023 (13:30 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Wonpil Im (Lehigh university)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第17回：2023年7月11日(火) 12:00〜18:00</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <div class="organizer">
    Prof. Shoji Takada (Kyoto University)<br>
    Dr. Soundhararajan Gopi (Kyoto University)<br>
    Dr. Giovanni Brandani (Kyoto University)
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">June 6, 2023 (16:00 &#8211; 17:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;(Hopefully Kind) Guide to Quantum Computing for Computational Molecular/Material Scientists&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Wataru Mizukami (Osaka University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Quantum computing has been advancing rapidly since around 2014, and in Japan, RIKEN launched its cloud-based quantum computer in the cloud in March this year. While current quantum computers are not yet practical for real-world challenges, the development of algorithms for them is thriving. In this seminar, which is aimed primarily at computational molecular/material scientists, I will give a brief overview of quantum computing complemented by hands-on demonstrations and discuss its current status.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">April 27, 2023 (15:00 &#8211; 16:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3>&#8220;Molecular Theories for Chemical Condensed Phase&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Hirofumi Sato (Department of Engineering, Kyoto University)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">March 13, 2023 (16:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3>&#8220;Collagen: a biological rubber band or a mega-enzyme?&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Frauke Greater (Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">March 3, 2023 (13:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-online">ONLINE</label>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Benedikt Rennekamp and Dr. Matthias Brosz</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">January 27, 2023 (15:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Elucidation of Cataytic Mechanisms for Nitric Oxide Reductases by Time-resolved Techniques
&#8220;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Takehiko Tosha (RIKEN SPring-8 center)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Nitric oxide (NO) plays diverse and pivotal roles in various biological processes although NO shows high cytotoxicity. In microbial denitrification process, a form of anaerobic respiration, in which nitrate or nitrite is reduced to dinitrogen in a step-wise manner, NO is produced as an intermediate product. To eliminate the cytotoxic effect of NO, microorganisms utilize NO reductase (NOR), which decomposes two NO molecules to nitrous oxide (N2O) using two protons and electrons (2NO + 2H+ + 2e- → N2O + H2O). There are two types of NORs in microbial denitrification; one is soluble NOR (P450nor) observed in fungi and the other is bacterial membrane-integrated NOR (cNOR). Although the extensive efforts for understanding the mechanisms for NO reduction by NORs, the reaction mechanisms are still in debate mainly due to the limited information on the short-lived reaction intermediates. In this study, we utilized caged NO (BNN5), which releases NO within micro-second time domain upon UV illumination, as a trigger for the NOR reaction, and applied it for time-resolved spectroscopic and structural analyses for the reaction intermediates. The time-resolved techniques combined with caged NO provided invaluable information on the reaction mechanisms both in P450nor and cNOR.<br>
    1) P450nor. P450nor catalyzes NO reduction at a thiolate-coordinated heme active center. The resting ferric enzyme reacts with one NO molecule to form ferric NO-bound species, followed by a hydride transfer from NADH to produce a short-lived reaction intermediate called intermediate I [1]. Then, intermediate I reacts with second NO molecule to produce N2O. Because the structural characterization of intermediate I is a key to understand the reaction mechanism in P450nor, we aimed to determine the atomic and electronic structures of intermediate I. The time-resolved X-ray crystallography using X-ray free electron laser (XFEL) and caged NO gave the molecular structure of intermediate I [2-3]. In addition, the time-resolved IR analysis showed that the N-O stretching frequency (nNO) of intermediate I was detected at 1290 cm-1 [3]. Using these structural information, we can conclude that intermediate I is a Fe3+-NHO●- species. Thus, NO reduction by P450nor proceeds via radical coupling reaction.<br>
    2) cNOR. The active site of cNOR consists of heme and non-heme iron (FeB). Since the NO reduction reaction by cNOR is finished within milli-second time domain, the reaction intermediates were poorly understood. The time-resolved visible absorption measurement using caged NO showed that the fully reduced cNOR produced N2O via three steps [4]. In the 1st step, one NO molecule binds to reduced cNOR to form a NO-bound species in ~5 ms. The NO-bound species is converted to another chemical species without protonation and second NO binding at ~100 ms (2nd step). Finally, the second NO biding and the protonation to the reaction intermediate yield N2O in the milli-second 3rd step. To get further insights into the structure of the intermediates, we aimed to trap the reaction intermediates by the photolysis of caged NO under cryogenic temperature (cryo-photolysis) and following thermal annealing. The cryo-photolysis of caged NO and subsequent annealing at ~160 K for cNOR produced a species showing g = ~4 signal in EPR spectroscopy. Taken together with the fact that the nNO was detected at 1683 cm-1 by the TR-IR measurement at 5 ms, intermediate 1 is a non-heme Fe-NO species [5]. These findings allow us to propose a revised mechanism for the NO reduction reaction by cNOR.<br>
    References<br>
    [1] Shiro et al. J. Biol. Chem. 270, 1617-1623 (1995). [2] Tosha et al. Nat. Commun. 8, 1584 (2017). [3] Nomura et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 118, e2101481118 (2021). [4] Takeda et al. Bull. Chem. Soc. Jpn. 93, 825-833 (2020). [5] Takeda et al. J. Phys. Chem. B, in press.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

## 2022{#2022}

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第16回：2022年12月1日(木) 13:30〜15:00</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;WHAT CAN CHARMM-GUI DO FOR YOU?&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Wonpil Im (Lehigh University)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Since its original development in 2006, CHARMM-GUI has proven to be an ideal web-based platform to interactively build complex molecular systems and prepare their simulation inputs with well-established and reproducible simulation protocols for state-of-the-art molecular simulations using widely used simulation packages. The CHARMM-GUI development project has been widely adopted for various purposes and now contains a number of different modules designed to set up a broad range of molecular simulation systems. Our philosophy in CHARMM-GUI development is less about providing the nuts and bolts of molecular modeling, but instead focused on helping users to achieve a task, such as building a membrane system or solvating a protein, by providing a streamlined interface. This design principle helps us to think of the workflow critically when designing the interface, which leads CHARMM-GUI to be accessible to users with little experience in modeling tools and remains useful to experts, especially for batch generation of systems. The CHARMM-GUI development project is still ongoing. CHARMM-GUI will continue to help expert and non-expert researchers from a broader range of the modeling and simulation community to build the complex molecular systems of their interest and prepare the input files for any general and advanced modeling and simulation through the large and unique scope of CHARMM-GUI functionality, allowing the research community to carry out innovative and novel molecular modeling and simulation research. In this talk, I will present the past, present, and future of the CHARMM-GUI development project, and some applications for specific modules will be also discussed.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">November 4, 2022 (10:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Accurate modeling of the electrostatic potential maps of proteins&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Marta Kulik (University of Warsaw, Poland)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>The quality of image and diffraction data from cryo-electron microscopy and micro-electron diffraction is rapidly increasing. At the same time, the approaches to model the electrostatic potential maps of macromolecular systems containing proteins have significantly improved and reach beyond the simple point charges or spherical independent atom model (IAM). We recently applied the multipolar electron scattering factors to calculate the theoretical potential for proteins [1], without reaching the expensive quantum calculations. We have used the transferable aspherical atom model (TAAM) with the Multipolar Atom Types from Theory and Statistical clustering (MATTS) data bank (successor of UBDB2018 [2]). This data bank gathers aspherical atom types, useful for deriving the multipolar electron scattering factors. MATTS is a database universal for proteins, RNA, and other macromolecules as the atom types are transferable between similar chemical environments. Using MATTS it is possible to recreate the electron density distribution of macromolecules via structure factors [3] or to calculate the accurate electrostatic potential maps for small molecules [4]. MATTS is able to reproduce the molecular electrostatic potential of molecules within their entire volume better than the simple point charge models used in molecular mechanics or neutral spherical models used in electron crystallography.<br>
    [1] M. Kulik, M. L. Chodkiewicz, P. M. Dominiak, Acta Cryst. D, 2022, 78<br>
    [2] Kumar et al., Acta Cryst. A 2019, 75, 398-408<br>
    [3] Chodkiewicz et al., J. Appl. Cryst. 2018, 51, 193-199<br>
    [4] Gruza et al., Acta Cryst. A 2020, 76, 92-109</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">November 4, 2022 (10:00 &#8211; )</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;The case of an aminoglycoside-sensing riboswitch&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Dr. Piotr Chyży (Biomolecular Machines Laboratory, Centre of New Technologies University of Warsaw, Poland)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>We know a wide range of mechanisms that regulate gene expression in cells. Usually, they are based on modulating crucial steps of transcription, but they can also stall translation in the cytoplasm. In bacteria hindering translation often occurs with the help of RNA aptamers that specifically bind ligands initiating a biological response. One such RNA aptamer is a synthetic N1 riboswitch that binds aminoglycoside antibiotics. When we incorporate N1 riboswitch into cellular mRNA, its secondary structure regulates the aminoglycoside-dependent accessibility of ribosomes to the transcript. Suppose we design such controllable RNA fragments in a ligand-dependent manner, we could use them as molecular targets for antimicrobial compounds.<br>
    However, before we even start designing RNA aptamers for any therapeutic use, we need to understand their mode of action. Thus, we focused on the smallest synthetic RNA aptamer found active in vivo – N1 riboswitch. To understand the functioning of this RNA aptamer, we characterized its molecular recognition by various aminoglycosides. Next, we explained how single-point mutations change its regulatory properties and how they affect the ligand association process. To achieve this aim, we performed replica-exchange molecular dynamics simulations to enhance the sampling of the conformational space. As a result, we explained why paromomycin is the only inactive antibiotic and how the A17G mutant reduces the ligand binding affinity. We also successfully made the first attempt to implement the multi-dimensional simulations of a system containing a ligand-nucleic acid complex to characterize the association process. The obtained association and binding paths for neomycin corroborate with experimental data and suggest a two-step binding mode.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">October 28, 2022 (16:00 &#8211; 17:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3 class="accordion-trigger">&#8220;Overtone and combination vibrational transitions in bacteriorhodopsin: from the retinal to internal water molecules.&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Victor Lorenz-Fonfria (Membrane Biophysics Group, Institute of Molecular Science, Universitat de València, Spain)</div>
  <div class="detail accordion-body">
    <p>Virtually all vibrational studies on BR or other rhodopsins have focused on fundamental transitions, from the vibrational ground state to the first excited state. In this presentation I will first talk about newly reported bands between 2600-1900 cm-1 in the K-BR difference spectrum at 77K. We tentatively assigned them to overtone and combination bands from C-C stretches and hydrogen-out-of-plane (HOOP) vibrations of the retinal in the BR and K states. For the BR state, we have supported these assignments with anharmonic vibrational calculations. I will explain how comparing bands from overtones/combination transitions with bands from fundamental transitions we draw some interesting conclusions about mechanical and electronic anharmonicities in the C-C stretches and HOOP vibrations of the retinal [1]. In addition, I will present preliminary results showing changes in the overtone bands of the retinal in the BR state with temperature, pointing to changes in the all-trans retinal conformation as temperature goes below 170 K , changes silent in fundamental bands. This result highlights a potentially higher sensitivity of overtones transitions to conformation than for fundamental transitions, at least for retinal C-C stretches.<br>
    We have also explored the region between 7000-4000 cm-1, part of the near IR region that is still accessible to FTIR spectrometers. I will present and discuss the detection of overtone transitions of O-H (O-D) vibrations from internal water molecules in the M-BR difference spectrum at room-temperature. These vibrations include the dangling O-H (O-D) stretch of water 401, part of the pentagonal cluster in the BR state, and the dangling O-H (O-D) stretch of a water molecule, part of a putatively water wire formed in the M intermediate between Asp96 and the retinal Schiff base.</p>
  </div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">第15回：2022年10月4日(木)</div>
  <label class="place-kobe">RIKEN (Kobe)</label>
  <h3>&#8220;CAMSAP2 organizes a γ-tubulin-independent microtubule nucleation centre through phase separation&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">Prof. Ryo Nitta and Dr. Tsuyoshi Imasaki (Kobe University)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->

<article class="article-block accordion-block">
  <div class="date">September 16, 2022 (13:30 &#8211; 15:00)</div>
  <label class="place-wako">RIKEN (Wako)</label>
  <div class="place">Room 210, 2nd Floor, Main Research Building</div>
  <h3>&#8220;Protein Structure Modeling and Quality Evaluation from Cryo-EM maps Using DAQ Score&#8221;</h3>
  <div class="organizer">r. Genki Terashi (Kihara Bioinformatics Laboratory, Purdue University, U.S.A)</div>
</article><!-- /.article -->